# Ethics and Corporate Governance

## What are the main ethical issues at stake in this case and how do you judge the way they were handled?

Various ethical issues were raised during Oracle’s attempted takeover of PeopleSoft, both managements blinded by personal bias and placing their own interest above that of shareholders.

At PeopleSoft, Duffield was concerned with the human costs of the takeover. While this in itself is a good thing, it should have been secondary to shareholder costs. He crossed the line when he wrote to Battle about offering expensive watches and trips to independent directors; a gift tied to resisting the takeover. This could clearly harm their independence and discredit their positions. Meanwhile, Conway held the company too tightly in his grip, unwilling to let it go in despite shareholders possibly gaining from the takeover. According to Catz, he wouldn’t allow the deal if it meant he’d lose control of the company thereafter. For shareholders, this should be a negligible point.

Similarly unjustified fears permeated PeopleSoft’s entire board, as partly evidenced by its creation of such titanic defenses. Just as all its defenses had the effect of reassuring long term customers and ensuring performance, the irreversible decision to lobby an anti-trust case was too much. If Oracle had offered an extremely generous price, shareholders would have lost due to this decision. More so, what if SAP made an offer? All doors were closed. We know a company must work to keep customers, but management cannot absolutely deny shareholders in this effort. A balance must be maintained.

Nor did PeopleSoft reasonably consider offers. They quickly denied offers, and again, alluded to worrying customers. But surely some legally secret communications could have been arranged. Given their creative and arduous efforts to resist takeover, a similar response to cooperate could have been attempted. The stark failure provokes further wonderment about managements’ underlying interest and points to stubbornness. Roadshows aiming to influence side-taking was also a fiasco, as due diligence can be done by independent shareholders.

Altogether, both parties failed to act with decency and maturity. A personality feud tainted relations from the outset. Oracle’s bad etiquette of jumping from the shadows with an offer naturally evoked mistrust. The two parties should have talked if they were genuine. Instead, they went forward to exchange colorful dialogues and sarcastic dog-assassination parodies that only worked to further entrench their positions. It is no concern that Conway was alienated or that Ellison’s sense of pride was insulted. As custodians of shareholder interest, it is not their place to act as a fatherly figure, but a well-compensated servant.

Those at the helms of Oracle and PeopleSoft failed at their most fundamental role – to consistently serve the interest of shareholders. They erratically assembled defenses, made absolutist statements and stubbornly stuck to their positions, all aimed to ensure long term clients and thereby serve shareholder interest. But it was their own interests they were serving. Their inflammatory remarks only go to illuminate their subjectivity.