# Koito-Pickens-Toyota Case:

1. The Japanese corporate governance system differs vastly from the US system.Discuss corporate governance issues that may arise under the Japanese keiretsusystem from the perspective of a) financiers b) owners c) suppliers and d) employees.
2. What were T. Boone Pickens’ motives when he bought the share? As the largestshareholder of Koito Manufacturing, is he entitled to representation on the board,does Japanese law allow for that? If not what in the law could he use to get anequivalent result?
3. Besides board representation, T. Boone Pickens demanded higher dividend payouts.Were his demands justified? Provide quantitative evidence to back your answer. Isthere anything in the Japanese commercial code that would allow Pickens to try to getmore dividends? If yes, why doesn’t he use this? If not, based on your experience asan international investment banker, what changes would you recommend him topropose
4. Pickens accused Toyota of limiting profits earned by Koito Manufacturing. Explain how the mechanism works? Is this a self-dealing transaction? If Pickens gets access to financial information, how can he set out to prove his accusations? If you were an investment banker, what accounts or data would you tell him to scrutinize. Would you suggest to change the charter of the organization of Koito? How?
5. Toyota has threatened to cut all ties with Koito Manufacturing if Pickens takes over the company. How would this affect Pickens investments? If you were a minority shareholder in Koito Manufacturing, whose side would you take – Koito’s or Pickens? Calculate the value of your shares with and without Toyota. [Hint: you should imagine some alternative scenarios of what would happen to the cash flows under both situations and use the Discounted Cash Flow methodology, for example]. Based on your assessment of the case, are large shareholders an effective solution to the corporate governance problem.